now  a long time you were my channel once said to me
think  ye is not a
in  real life as he may seem on camera
the  illegible
how  short do you think i am
with  a shout like this this is exactly why i wonder i'm just kind of like
floating  in a sea of nothingness i mean a film this stuff instead i could do it with the window
when  the background
seems  to me like there is no there's no context in to you want might be
it  might be because i use a really enormous
these  cups are huge this man the one tiny and there is a regular citoles
could  you bring me a regular sized cup no rush but yet that must be words people the i'm short
because  i drink out of the auge cup there no mystery says
i  am i am about six foot three in american
would  that passionate way in this is a video that actually babinich ned
helices  ion over discord last night isaac was there a gay as
yourself  much people taginae and you know i realized that a few different videos over the years
talking  about what i called the boy cottontail but almost all those ideas there was some
other  theses or purpose i was driving a
and  i wasn't answering the simple central question
of  the economic efficacy of
so  again to start by answering the question why does this matter and that i may answer the question itself and then
we're  going to be one in
because  i realized my discussion last night if he is baffling and troubling for some beans and presentable
who  are considered becoming began is and above all i think it is troubling for people who are committed to begin
animated  but a not yet committed to whether or not they want to be began active
how
going  to be which is a meaningful question in its own right
so
why  does this mate
some  people begin their engaged with begins with the sun assumption
a  change in diet alone
well  see over the lives of
no
so  they may feel that the personal
saving  the lives of a certain number of animals they may tell their family
if  all five of us become began then we will save the lives of so many amber
they  may even be so foolish that they don't eat money to a website
website  the promises he
if  you donate five hundred dollars you're going to see the lives
the
there's  some pony math out there and that math is appealing
you  you
wishful  thinking wanting to think you're directly saving it in animal by eating
too  and not eating
and  then at some point almost all begins start to quest
how  were the mathematical relationship
they  look around them in society and they realize look if we have a country
three  hundred million people
and  only one person is began everyone else as
the  diet of that one person
have  an impact
how  many cows are actually being slaughtered how many pigs are being slaughtered
and  they started to think well if we have a society of three hundred million people
and  there were three thousand
how  much of an impact could the dietary and economic
people
could  they really save the lives of even one cow of even
could  they even have an impact on
and  they think
at  some point they started to do the searching wonder given the complexities of the free
market
given  the type of intervention in the
as  the various forms of subsidy price controls
agriculture  which is different in europe than it is in north america
states  the
china  but nevertheless all round the world you generally have a hybrid of
free  market forces
intervention
below
subsidies  and subventions
various  kind which
that  farmers make money that offer for example for the government to buy
up  food that nobody else
and  so forth he is
given  these complexities they start to doubt even if we have
in  this country
how  can we actually imagine that the dietary choice
the  boycott
the
a  simple example we all know
we  have a movement of
who  refused to drink beer
we  just look for it we're all goin to quit alcohol in a stop drinking
do  you really think that will directly cause the beer factories of the world
in  aggregate
to  produce fewer bottles of
even  if we have thirty thousand people now of course there's also quite
is  our impact enough
the  bureau company would even have a sale or would lower its price because there's the
flexibility
supply  and demand and price going
and  the price of beef
for  the
does  go up now so that flexible and then there's also there also these mechanisms of government
support  government ballot government price
that  further skew the type of
now  sometimes these types of arguments are easier to make clear
if  you take the equation and slip it on its head if you present the equation
very  obviously
if  we had a society
three  hundred million people
and  almost everybody is
if  percent of people are being in or there's only one person we met
if  ninety nine point nine nine percent of people are began then obviously
the  meal that even by the one person in our society read
requires  killing an animal richissime or living a hypothetic country eternity
obviously  also if i and my family let's they have a family of five
per
if  we decide to double the amount of meat we eat every week if we decide increase
we  must know that this corresponds to more animals being
killed  and it's very easy to see an aggregate if every one in our society decides
to  double the amount of beef the
saying  be for reason not mean jones
if  everyone is society says to double the amount of beef it is obvious that the millions
of  people increasing their beanston must correspond to the doubling of the number
of  cows being killed
just  have a response in
prices
government  intervention of these other complicating
true  these things are enough to make you question whether or not mirror economic activism
near  boycotts merchants
can  really have those kinds of
but  nevertheless we flipped on said it's very clear there must be some relationship
and  there must be some threshold there must be some tipping
there  is some point at which so few people are buying beer that the bear
factory  says he let's may be reorganized
make  so many bottles of beer and maybe we can use the same machinery and start making so many
bottles  of
so  a poor
some  other product or maybe some of the factories have to close down
in  the past
going  to be some kind
reorganization
with  a reality of what fine
but  what that tipping point is at what stage you have enough of an impact
consumer  choice an economic behavioral loan is very difficult to say especially
in  a
so  by the same token when i was living in a small poverty stricken town in northern
loss  i have mentioned this before but probably three or four years ago in this channel i lived in a
town  where a good income
good  income
us  do
one  five us does
a  good household
in  a wealthy family might have made
now  there are extreme poverty
moderated  by the fact that they could get a lot of their food for
so  i knew people earning
stormont
and  they would go out fishing
a  tiny creek and a tiny river and they would walk they would wander in the forest
and  gather food that grew wild
they  were very
already  stricken third world conde
but  one of the reasons it was possible to survive with so little cash income was
and  they also had
shelter
free  they were
anyway  and in these conditions that town of thinking
they  killed on most days the whole town together
killed  one pig
and  i remember i was once scoffing
if  you wake up early enough in the
could  see the rich
going  to buy
pieces  of the one
now  you know the reason well that's a funny memory for me was
i  had just referred to these as rich
they  were wealthy relative to the incredibly
so  there are some circumstances now in that town
the  back probably if i went back to day probably that same market in the
morning  there probably killing ten pigs
with  the increase in local affluence the emergence from communism
from  post war poverty
development
they  probably have more can
disparity  the pro have more rich people and more poor pole
but  there probably are more pigs being killed so in some circumstances those market
mechanisms  you can really see it you can really measure it but for most
of  us living in a highly popular
the  highly developed
western
millions  of people british
very  very easy to get discouraged
the  boy caught mental
with  merely economic consumers
of  the inactive
and  if you feel this way
don't  deny it don't distract yourself from it you feel discouraged for a reason
even  though there is some abstract
there  was a question on the crockford that tells you you're doing something good
this  through this
you  are correct to doubt that you are saving the life
of  even one animal when you go to the grocery store and choose to buy to
rather  than
you  are correct to worry that means being a tiny minority within the united
states  of america are barely having any impact on the prices of
and  if you want to study empirically what this looks like this is why before i mentioned the doubling of beef
over  time in the united states of america or any large western
when  you look at the statistics for how many hogs are being killed how many
cows  and how many chickens of course they're more stistics
examples  he simply you will see dramatic increases in dere
partly  due to economic recessions
partly  due to wars partly due to sudden abrogations of
trade  deals international trade treaty
but  most often the ones you can see in
or  due to
so  in the newspapers there will be headlines
that  there is a deadly virus being
though
the  thick
and  then all of a sudden the number of chickens being one
declines
and  the number of cows being killed from
can  increase dramatically but the same to
there's  a scare about poor
similar  pattern and indeed at several points during my lifetime there have been mermer
health  concerns about
were  the number of cows being eaten suddenly declare
so  one of them with my life was what was called curtis
also  known as mad cow
so  at different times whether it's to economic forces for sudden
fear  of
people  for completely non ethical reasons
suddenly  stopped in one even and start eating
see  those dramatic changes in supply and demand the number of animals
a  soul that has happened there is an historical record of
and  it is somewhat depressing to know
the  impact began can
especially  society like
is  never going to aggregate
even  be a tiny flat
of  one of those case studies the
now  furthermore this is the new part of the story there is right now a new political
lobbying  group organized by the ute channel began baisanghar
the  name of for you to gentle
is  began back
i'm  not making a joke i'm not insulting her this isn't a nickname for her
that  time of egypt
so  if you look up the invader you'll see why she chose that appellation
she  is an activist who is trying to address
the  entanglement
of  the american government
the  air cultural
from  a vegan
hoping  to restore the natural
which  are a concern especially with
for  camille
so  much government
regular
supply  and the
dry  products and she's correct in saying this does go back
there  have been further
legal
implements
new  instruments of government
at
but  in case the united states government
deeply  entangle
culture  and there is a question of a dissenting
i
what  could be a more
responsive  to
but  currently it is very unresponsive
so  that is one approach is try to lobby for political
that  would make
boycott
humor  centered activity
that's  not my perspective i do i am very interested in what he's doing in watching what he's
doing  i wish you the best
several  other inactive i know who have come ground with her of directed them
to  her channel with the activities of the may be the one work together mamma
however  when people asked me about this and they almost always asking because their despairing
their  losing
in  the act
the  main thing
mind  them up
is  that
the  boy caught element of
is  not mutually ex
with  any other form of activism
on  the contrary the boycott element is morally prerequisite
the  other for
so  my point is this
centuries
several  centuries
if  you were an anti slavery
could  not possibly
be  an anti slavery activist while continuing to
now  this is a more dramatic example but it's not without a stoical
i  do not think you could be an anti slavery activist wearing a jacket
wearing  clothing
made  out of the skin made of the human skin of a slave wearing leather of
human  origin to put this
how  could you possibly
have  any kind of
ethical  basis remorse an hypocrite
there's  a conflict of interests there that's profound and unsettling where any one would say do you anyone
the  right moment to
if  you're going to be any slavery activist you can't be actively exploiting slavery
you  have to hope you have there is a first step here there's something prerequisite before he can get
well  and there are many other
in  the same
a  matter of one thing one resolution one degree of
being  for our
i  do not see how it is possible in two thousand
to  be an ecological
whether  the colt or interest in his water pollution or air pollution or climate change or
saving  the whales helping an endangered species
solar  power there are so many one of us back
i  do not see how he could advocate for
good
if  you are not
began  in terms of our personal discipline your shop in the
boycott  your refusal to buy me your prize
in  terms the ditch ice is
my  point is even if we do not see the economic boycott element
as
if  you say you want to also engage in or above and beyond this you want to engage in other forms of
activism
the  organization lobbying government public education over each et cetera
or  creative work you want to make a movie whether it's a documentary movie or even a fictional
movie  whatever you want to paint paint
make  you want to use music whatever the platform for activity now reach you want to
engage  in
and  i mean not even be legalism
defined  it may be that you want to save the whales or do something to vote in the college
there  may be some other lute
some  other range you
nevertheless  you have you recognize the boycott
pre  requisite for your own
stand
in  taking on
so  in closing i was going to say when i debated this or discuss this last
night
real  time with some the
some  other vegan some other respiring in
closed  with a mixed
of  optimism and hopeless
and  the question was asked not to me was asked to the whole room well what if
you're  in the position of being very skeptical about how effect
the  boy caught it on
and
you  have other you other options you other opportunity
other  ways to make the world to feel
and  i said look i think it will be one herself every single person
we  all know
we  know we could be doing humanitarian work in syria
we  could be doing humanitarian work on a first nation's reservation like atfield
be  reaching out to and helping
the  poor and then to an or getting involved in a civil war or revolution
alleviating  starvation by handing on secretary
there  is a finite but dizzying array of positive moral
causes  and positive opportunity to
you  could be fooling your energy to and i said to him i hope
your  attempted by those
but  i have a double meaning there one i hope there are opportunities in your life like that makes
and  i i hope you're the kind of person who feels tempted
step  up and take on those responsibilities
brace  and
and  i think all of us will at different phases of our life have to make the decision
to  put vegetative on the back for
to  make it a lower priority or no partial because we have some kind of wonderful opportunity
to  go to syria and to humanitarian work maybe there's an earthquake in haiti and you want
to  go to where the earthquake is and just think positive so on so forth that is very true especially short term
there  may be extraordinary opportunities you have to
however
reciprocally
have  to acknowledge the extraordinary thing about ten
something  you can do right
with  it were for cooperation from an anyone else you don't need organization
you  don't need a team you don't need a foundation you don't need anything else
a  responsibility
that  also a moral duty
something  very meaningful and very positive that
day  in day out three meals a day once you get used
as  easy as washing your hands or brushing
part  of the rhythm of
is  prerequisite as a cat
you  can take
those  other
perhaps  lower perhaps more effective perhaps less effective those other
forms
moral